Oh
good morning and today I am off to the
Isle of Arran on a earth sciences field
trip really sure what to expect I've
kind of got mixed feelings about it like
I'm not really into the whole fieldwork
side of Earth Sciences you probably know
by now the earth sciences isn't my
favorite module but there are
interesting parts and it might be really
fun just to go for it's like just over a
week long it might be really fun I like
some neat really enjoy it so we'll see
but the coach leaves from Cambridge so
it's really early now because of having
to drive up to Cambridge so early like I
got up at 5 o'clock this morning five
o'clock it's just too early for me way
too early it's okay because we've got
the seat warmers all in the car so mix
things a bit better eventually the Sun
rose and I joined the coach in Cambridge
it was a fairly comfy couch tree about
eight hours from Cambridge to err where
we were staying as we got further north
we saw lots of hills and the clouds did
seem to increase as well unfortunately
but yeah the most thing we saw was sheep
actually sheep were everywhere so we
spent off first night in a hotel on the
mainland it was very pleasant
we had twin rooms and ensuite bathroom
yeah I look back on that place only and
then for our first day on the field we
were looking at rocks on the airsho
coast hence why we stayed on the
mainland it was a bit of a shock
actually it was really muddy a little
did I know what was to come
actually my shiny new boots were not so
shiny after that we also walked down the
slippery rocks and had to climb over
them with quite steep drops next then
when the trip leader first told us that
you're gonna climb down there I laughed
I thought he was joking we got a very
able to Aaron later that day it wasn't
the most
experience the sea was quite rough it
was very blurry outside and I did feel a
little seasick but it's fine it was only
an hour long throughout the week the
general setup was we'd walk for a bit
stop at a rock outcrop Rock a bit more
stop at another rock outcrop the walks
could be up to 11 miles per day say my
fitness levels were really put to the
test we stayed at a field centre in the
north of the island it wasn't as
luxurious the hotel we were in a room of
six with bunk beds there were communal
showers and toilets down the corridor we
were encouraged to look over all of the
outcrops on both a macro and micro scale
and we made notes of our observations
and through field sketches my vision of
a perfectly neat field notebook was
pretty much ruined on the first day the
combination of wind rain cold hands
which made it difficult to write made my
book very battered and messy however my
feedback I got here from one of the
demonstrators wasn't too bad though I
must say they said good work there were
seven demonstrators on the trip to help
how about 30 students the demonstrators
were members of the earth department and
PhD students and they were a great
source of knowledge a lot of our
interpretations what basically guess
works so we did need a little bit of
guidance in the evenings we'd all taken
turns giving presentations on the stuff
we'd seen that day
we often went to a pub that was 15
minutes down the road from the field
centre it was a great place to socialize
we did have to take torches they because
the roads weren't lit on the way there
we were looking at the features such as
young indirection bedding planes
cleavage planes fossils green shape size
distributions of grains crystal shape
just to give you an idea we were looking
at rock outcrops all over the island so
it will often driven by a private hire
bus to our destination and then dropped
off and then picked off at the end of
the day after a day of lots of walking
it wasn't just any old walking there oh
no we were going scrambling over
boulders we're walking through books it
was a whole new experience but I have to
say I'm really proud of myself for doing
it you should have seen the mudslide I
went down here we are walking back
through look bronzer back to the build
centre after a day on the field it was
really beautiful the Sun had come out on
this day the scenery was just amazing
however according to Wikipedia look
grandeur is actually the village with
the least hours of sunshine in the UK
which I thought was quite funny here are
some of the really cute lambs all over
the island they just like to run around
after their mums it was so cute
here we see the dune drama dune which is
an example of a sill we had a feel
discussion competition of this art is
not my forte so there were lots of golf
courses all over the island it's quite
funny actually my grandparents went on a
golfing holiday to the Isle of Arran
many years ago they could just imagine
them on that course very scenic about
halfway through the trip we had a meal
paid for by BP it was three-course we
had a little bit of wine as well we had
the old famous pop corn salad and yeah
it was good although the food at the
field centre wasn't too bad they gave us
a pack lunch every day and there was
plenty of it they always offered seconds
at dinner we saw a few impressive and
trace fossils well on the trip we saw
arthropod tracks pink giant millipede
and also our Castle footprint and it was
basically a dinosaur right
[Music]
this is the valley that we were mapping
on one of the last days of the trip it
was a full kilometer squared area we've
given a team of eight and we all went
out searching for contacts between
different rock outcrops for the day
I honestly laughed so much that day we
spent so much time stuck in fog not
knowing where we were going we walked up
to the top of the hill because we
literally just given up on geology and
then actually stumbled upon a shared
battle outcrop that no one else saw so
we actually fluked it but it was still
fun the trip was a great opportunity to
meet people from other colleges people
who are at different colleges in
Cambridge and North Jesus everyone was
so friendly and I made really good
friends thank you to all of them for
making the trips so great here is my
groups completed map the different
colors represent different rock outcrops
we had to present it to the rest of the
group that evening with a proposed
geological history of the area on the
last day of the trip we were given
options of what we wanted to do I chose
the easy option apparently of climbing
goat fell mountain let me tell you it
was exhausting but the views were
amazing out here it was really misty at
the talk it's an experience I wouldn't
have got elsewhere I'm like so proud
like I would never would have thought to
climb a mountain before of my own accord
funnily enough I reckon I got the best
mobile signal all week on the top of
that mountain so whilst I'm a whiner
complain about having to go on a science
field trip doing hi King looking at
rocks saying it's not my thing
actually it was a great experience and
I'm so glad I've done it I feel like
I've been on an adventure and I've
learned so much although I think it's
probably a one-time thing
so thank you for watching like and
subscribe if you enjoyed and I'll see
you soon with another video bye
[Music]